For the accurate interpretation of neutrino experiment results, in particular, for the neutrino mixing parameter extraction, it is necessary to study theoretical uncertainty in predicted count rates in detectors.

Quasielastic neutrino-nucleus interaction provides the main contribution to the count rate of so-called muon-like and electron-like events identified as single-ring events fully contained in water-Cherenckov detectors like Super-Kamiokande. Also quasielastic scattering events can be identified separately in track-recording detectors, e.g. NO$\nu$A.

An essential source of calculation uncertainty belongs to cross sections of neutrino interactions with nucleons and nuclei. There is currently no generally accepted single nuclear model, applicable in a wide energy range, from threshold to extremely high values. Also there is a problem with a model-dependent description of the structure functions of the nucleon, especially, with an important phenomenological parameter characterizing the axial-vector and pseudoscalar contributions to the hadronic electroweak current, so-called nucleon axial mass. The range of axial mass values used in the current Monte Carlo neutrino generators of a number of experiments (from 0.99 GeV in T2K to 1.2 GeV in Super-Kamiokande) appeals to be unreasonably wide and distorting the interpretation of the experimental results.

Phenomenological solution for both these problems is to apply the effective axial mass, which means the use of the relativistic Fermi gas model of the nucleus at the same time with the introduction of the axial form factor parameterization. From the statistical analysis of available accelerator data on quasielastic neutrino scattering we extract the shape and optimal values of this parameter, which can be recommended for use in the neutrino generators. 



In this study, we estimate the error in the quasielastic event rate prediction in experiments with atmospheric and accelerator neutrinos caused by the uncertainty in the value of the nucleon axial mass. It follows from our analysis that the impact of the axial mass uncertainty is comparable in magnitude with the expected neutrino oscillation effect itself. We propose a simple phenomenological method which allows to describe experimental quasielastic neutrino interaction data consistently and decrease uncertainty in the extracted neutrino mixing parameters.

